Improve fundamentals workout in react (#1502)
enkidevs/curriculum: javascript/react/fundamentals/the-react-component.md

---

# The React component

---
## Content

> In **React**, a component represents a fundamental *class* you can work with to build re-usable and independent `UI` blocks.

Reviewer: Maybe instead of "class you can work with to build" you can say "unit of logic"?

These components behave like simple functions, they can take input arguments called `props` and will return what should be *rendered*.

If you want to create a simple component, you can use a JavaScript function like this:

```jsx
// functional component
function Enki(props) {
  return <p>Enki aka Ea</p>;
}
```

> At the same time, you can also `extend` the `ES6`[1] class `React.Component` to create a component. In this case, the *rendered* output needs to be specified inside a function called `render()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the same time, you can also `extend` the `ES6`[1] class `React.Component` to create a component. In this case, the *rendered* output needs to be returned from a method called `render()`:
```

```jsx
// class component
class Enki extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <p>Enki aka Ea</p>;
  }
}
```

> The differences between functional and class components will be discussed at the end of this workout, but for now know that React views both of the components defined above as being the same.

Reviewer: So this is kind of true but not really.

Shall we add a footnote caveat? 

See: https://overreacted.io/how-are-function-components-different-from-classes/

Reviewer: Or we could say something like:

```suggestion
The differences between functional and class components will be discussed at the end of this workout, but for now know that, when viewed externally, each way of writting a component can render the same result.
```

Author: We could re-write the entire insight on functional components to explain the differences and present an example similar to the one in the article. Do you think this is a good idea?

You can pass dynamic values to a component via `props` which will be discussed next. 

> Component names should start with a capital letter such that you can differentiate them from **DOM tags**.

Reviewer: Maybe explain a but more that this is a suggested convention but not a strict rule?

Author: oh, I always thought this was a strict rule. I'll rectify this

You can use other components when `render`ing, and a React element can represent your component as well:

```jsx
class Enki extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <Welcome />;
  }
}

const element = <Enki />;
```

Giving you the means to `render` it:

```jsx
ReactDOM.render(
  element,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
```
Because our component didn't use any input (`prop`) we didn't need to specify those values in the element.

---
## Practice

> Complete the missing gaps such that a `component` is defined using `ES6` syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the missing gaps such that a `component` is defined using class syntax:
```

These `component`s behave like simple functions, they can take input arguments called `props` and will return what should be *rendered*.

If you want to create a simple component, you can use a JavaScript function like this:

```jsx
// functional component
function Enki(props) {
  return <p>Enki aka Ea</p>;
}
```

At the same time, you can also `extend` the `ES6`[1] class `React.Component` to create a component. In this case, the *rendered* output needs to be specified inside a function called `render()`:

```jsx
// class component
class Enki extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <p>Enki aka Ea</p>;
  }
}
```

The differences between functional and class components will be discussed at the end of this workout, but for now know that React views both of the components defined above as being the same.

You can pass dynamic values to a component via `props` which will be discussed next. 

`Component` names should start with a capital letter such that you can differentiate them from **DOM tags**.

> You can use other components when `render`ing, and an `element` can represent your `component` as well:

Reviewer 2: this is ambiguous. what is `element`? a simple variable?  why is the `component` written as code? is that another variable? 

> instances of components can be assigned to JS variables
^ is this the takeaway?

Author: - `component` was just kept from the old content, I'll remove the code ticks
- `element` refers to a React element. I'll just use React element instead of `element`

## Revision

> Complete the missing gaps such that a `component` is defined using `ES6` syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the missing gaps such that a `component` is defined using class syntax:
```
